# Programming a Guessing Game

Let's jump into Rust by working through a 📝head-on(Involving active participation) project together! This chapter introduces you to a few common Rust concepts by showing you how to use them in a real program. You'll learn about `let, match`, methods, associated functions, external crates, and more! In the following chapters, we'll explore these ideas in more details. In this chapter, you'll just practice the fundamentals.

We'll implement a classic beginner programming problem: a guessing game. Here's how it works: the program will generate a random integer between 1 and 100. It will then prompt the player to enter a guess. After a guess is entered, the program will indicate whether the guess the guess is too low or to high.  If the guess is correct, the game will print a congratulatory message and exit.

## Setting Up a New Project

To set up a new project, go to the `projects` directory that you created in Chapter 1 and make a new project using `Cargo`, like so:  
```
$ cargo new  guessing_game
$ cd guessing_game
```
This first command, `cargo new`, takes the name of the project(guessing_game) as the first argument, The second command changes to the new project's directory.

Loo at the generated `Cargo.toml` file:

Filename: `Cargo.toml`
```
[package]
name = "guessing_game"
version = "0.1.0"
edition = "2021"

# See more keys and their definitions at https://doc.rust-lang.org/cargo/reference/manifest.html

[dependencies]
```
As you saw in Chapter 1, `cargo new` generates a "Hello, world!" program for you.Check out the `src/main.rs` file:

Filename: `src/main.rs`
```
fn main() {
    println!("Hello, world!");
}
```
Now let's compile this "Hello, world!" program and run it in the same step using the `cargo run` command: 
```
$ cargo run
   Compiling guessing_game v0.1.0 (file:///projects/guessing_game)
    Finished dev [unoptimized + debuginfo] target(s) in 1.50s
     Running `target/debug/guessing_game`
Hello, world!
```
The `run` command comes in handy when you need rapidly iterate on a project, as we'll do in this game,  quickly testing each iteration before moving on the next one.

Reopen the `src/main.rs` file. You'll be all the code in this file.

## Processing a Guess

The first part of the guessing game program will ask for use input,process that input, and check that the input is in the expected form. To start, we'll allow the player to input a guess. Enter the code in Listing 2-1 into `src/main.rs`.

Filename: `src/main.rs`
```
use std::io;

fn main() {
    println!("Guess the number!");

    println!("Please input your guess.");

    let mut guess = String::new();

    io::stdin()
        .read_line(&mut guess)
        .expect("Failed to read line");

    println!("You guessed: {guess}");
}
```
`Listing 201: Code that gets a guess from the user and prints it`

This code contains a lot of information, so let's go over it line by line. To obtain user input and then print the result as output, we need to bring the `io` input/output library into scope. The `io` library comes from the standard library, known as `std`:
```
use std::io;
```
By default, Rust has a set of items defined in the standard library that it brings into the scope of every program. This set is called the `prelude`, and you can see everything in it `in the standard library documentation`.

If a type you want to use isn't in the prelude, you have to bring that type scope explicitly with a `use` statement. Using the `std::io` library provides you with a number of useful features, including the ability to accept user input.

As you saw in Chapter 1, the `main` function is the entry point into the program:
```
fn main() {}
```
The `fn` syntax declares a new function; this parentheses, (), indicate there are no parameters; and the curly bracket, {, starts the body of the function.

As you also learned in Chapter 1, `println!` is a macro that prints a string to the screen:
```
    println!("Guess the number!");
    println!("Please input your guess.");
```
This code is printing a prompt starting what the game is and requesting input from the user.

## Storing Values with Variables

Next, we'll create a `varibale` to store the user input, like this:
```
    let mut guess = Sting::new();
```
Now the program is getting interesting! There's a lot going on in this little line. We use the `let` statement to create the variable. Here's another example:
```
    let apples = 5;
```
This line creates a new variable named `apples` and binds it to the value 5. In Rust, variables are immutable by default, meaning once we give the variable a value, the value won't change. We'll be discussing this concept in detail in the `Varibales and Mutablility` section in Chapter 3. To make a variable mutable, we ad `mut` before the variable name:
```
let apples = 5; // immutable
let mut bananas = 5; // mutable
```
```
Note: The `//` syntax starts a comment that continues until the end of the line. Rsut ignores everything in comments. We'll discuss comments in more detail in Chapter 3.
```
Returning to the guessing game program, you now know that `let mut guess` will introduce a mutable variable named `guess`. The equal sign (=) tells Rust we want to bind something to the variable now. On the right of the equal sign is the value that `guess` is bound to， which is the result of calling `String::new`, a function that returns a new instance of a `String`. `String` is a string type provided by the standard library that is a growable, UTF-8 encoded bit of text.

The `::` syntax in the `::new` line indicates that `new` is an associated function of the `String` type. An associated function is a function that's implemented on a type, in this case `String`. This `new` function creates a new, empty string. You'll find a `new` function on many types because it's a common name for a function that makes a new value of some kind.

In full, the `let mut guess = String::new();` line has created a mutable variable that is currently bound to a new, empty instance of a "String". Whew!

## Receiving User input

Recall that we included that input/output functionally from the standard library with `use std::io;` on the first line of the program. Now we'll call the `stdin` function form the `io` module, which will allow us to handle `user` input:
```
    io::stdin()
        .read_line(&mut guess)
```
If we hadn't imported the `io` library with `use std::io;` at the beginning of the program, we could still use the function by writing this function call as `std::io::stdin`. The `stdin` function returns an instance of `std::io::stdin`, which is a type that represents a handle to the standard input for your terminal.

Next, the line `.read_line(&mut guess)` calls the `read_line` method on the standard input handle to get input from the user. We're also passing `&mut guess` as the argument to `read_line` to tell it what string to store the user input in. The full job of `read_line` is to take whatever the user types into standard input and append that into a string (without overwriting its contents), so we therefore pas that string as an argument. The string argument needs to be mutable so that method can change the string's content.

The `&` indicates that this argument is a reference, which gives you a way to let multiple parts of your code access one piece of data without needing to copy that data into memory multiple times. References are a complex feature, and one of Rust's major advantages is how safe and easy it is to use references. You don't need to know a lot of those details to finish this program. For now, all you need to know is that, like variables, references are immutable by default. 📝Hence (因此), you need to write `&mut guess` rather than `&guess` to make it mutable. (Chapter 4 will explain references more thoroughly).

## Handling Potential Failure with Rust

We're still working on this line of code. We're now discussing a third line of text, but note that it's still part of a single logical line of code. The next part is this method:
```
        .expect("Failed to read line");
```
We could have written this code as:
```
io::stdin().read_line(&mut guess).expect("Failed to read line");
```
However, one long line is difficult to read, so it's best to divide it. It's often wise to introduce a newline and other white-space to help break up long lines when you call a method with the `.method_name()` syntax. Now let's discuss what this line does.

As mentioned earlier, `read_line` puts whatever the user enters into the string  we pass to it, but it also returns a `Ruslt` value. [Result] is an [enumeration], often call an `enum`, which is a type that call be in on of multiple possible states. We call each possible state `variant`.

Chapter 6 will cover `enums` in more detail. The purpose of these `Result` types is to encode error-handling information.

`Result`'s variants are `Ok` and `Err`. The `Ok` variant indicates the operation was successful, and inside `Ok` is the successfully generated value. The `Err` variant means the operation failed, and `Err` contains information about how or why the operation failed.

Values of the `Result` type, like values of any type, have methods defined on them. An instance of `Result` has an [expect] `method` that you can call. If this instance of `Result` is an `Err` value, `expect` will cause the program to crash and display the message that you passed as an argument to `expect`. If the `read_line` method returns an `Err`, it would likely be the result of an error coming from the underlying operating system. If this instance of `Result` is an `Ok` value, `expect` will take the return value that `Ok` is holding and return just that value to you so you can use it. In this case, that value is the number of bytes in the user's input.

If you don't call `expect`, the program will compile, but you'll get a warning:
```
$ cargo build
   Compiling guessing_game v0.1.0 (file:///projects/guessing_game)
warning: unused `Result` that must be used
  --> src/main.rs:10:5
   |
10 |     io::stdin().read_line(&mut guess);
   |     ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
   |
   = note: this `Result` may be an `Err` variant, which should be handled
   = note: `#[warn(unused_must_use)]` on by default

warning: `guessing_game` (bin "guessing_game") generated 1 warning
    Finished dev [unoptimized + debuginfo] target(s) in 0.59s

```
Rust warns that you haven't used the `Result` value returned from `read_line`, indicating that the program hasn't handled a possible error.

The right way to suppress the warning is to actually write error-handling code, but in out case we just want to crash this program when a problem occurs, so we can use `expect`. You'll learn about recovering from errors in Chapter 9.

## Printing Values with 'println!' Placeholders

Aside from the closing curly bracket, there's only one more line to discuss in the code so far:
```
    println!("You guessed: {guess}");
```
This line prints the string that now contains the user's input. The `{}` set of curly brackets is a placeholder: think of `{}` as little crab pincers that hold a value in place. When printing the value of a variable, the variable name can go inside the curly brackets. When printing the result of evaluating an expression, place empty curly brackets in the format string, then follow the format string with a comma-separated list of expressions to print in each empty curly bracket placeholder in the same order. Printing a variable and the result of an expression in on call to `println!` would look like this:
```
let x = 5;
let y = 10;
println!("x = {x} and y + 2 = {}", y + 2);
```
This code would print `x = 5 and y + 2 = 12`.

## Testing the First part
Let's test the first part of the guessing game. Run it using `cargo run`:
```
$ cargo run
    Compiling guessing_game v0.1.0 (file:///projects/guessing_game)
Guess the number!
Please input your guess.
5
You guessed: 5
```
At this point, the first part of the game is done: We're getting input from the keyboard and then printing it.

## Generating a Secret number

Next, we need to generate a secret number that the user will try to guess. The secret number should be different every time so the game is fun to play more than once. We'll use a random number between 1 and 100 so that game isn't difficult. Rust doesn't yet include random number functionally is its standard library. However, The Rust team does provide a `read crate` with said functionality.

## Using a Crate to Get More Functionality

Remember that a crate is a collection of Rust source code files. The project we've been building is a binary crate, which is an executable. The `rand` is a library crate, which contains code that is intended to be used in other program and can't be executed on its own.

Cargo's coordination of external creates is where Cargo really shines. Before we can write code that use `rand`, we need to modify the `Cargo.toml` file to include the `rand` as a dependency. Open that file now and add the following line to the bottom, 📝beneath ([adv] 下面; [prep] 在...下) the [dependencies] section header that Cargo created for you. Be sure to specify `rand` exactly as we have here, with this version number, or the code examples in the tutorial may not work:

Filename: `Cargo.toml`
```
[dependencies]
rand = "0.8.5"
```
In the `Cargo.toml` file, everything that follows a header is part of that section that continues until another section starts. In [dependencies] you tell `Cargo` which external creates your project depends on and which versions of these creates you require. In this case, we specify the `rand` create whit the semantic version specifier `0.8.5`. Cargo understands [Semantic Versioning] (sometimes called SemVer), which is a standard for writhing version numbers. The specifier `0.8.5` is actually shorthand for `^0.8.5`, which means any version that is at least 0.8.5 but below 0.9.0.

Cargo considers these versions to have public APIs compatible with version 0.8.5, and this specification ensures you'll get the latest patch release that will still compile with the code in this chapter. Any version `0.9.0` or greater is not guaranteed to have the same API as what the following examples use.

Now, without changing any of the code, let's build the project, as shown in Listing 2-2.
```
$ cargo build
    Updating crates.io index
  Downloaded rand v0.8.5
  Downloaded libc v0.2.127
  Downloaded getrandom v0.2.7
  Downloaded cfg-if v1.0.0
  Downloaded ppv-lite86 v0.2.16
  Downloaded rand_chacha v0.3.1
  Downloaded rand_core v0.6.3
   Compiling libc v0.2.127
   Compiling getrandom v0.2.7
   Compiling cfg-if v1.0.0
   Compiling ppv-lite86 v0.2.16
   Compiling rand_core v0.6.3
   Compiling rand_chacha v0.3.1
   Compiling rand v0.8.5
   Compiling guessing_game v0.1.0 (file:///projects/guessing_game)
    Finished dev [unoptimized + debuginfo] target(s) in 2.53s
```
Listing 2-2: The output from running `cargo build` after adding the rand crate as a dependency

You may see different version numbers (but they will all be compatible with the code, thanks to SemVer!) and different line (depending on the operating system), and the lines may be in a different order.

When we include an external dependency, Cargo fetches the latest versions of everything that dependency needs from the `registry`, which is a copy of data from [Creates.io]. Crates.io is where people in the Rust ecosystem post their open source Rust projects for others to use.

After updating the registry, Cargo checks the [dependencies] section and downloads any crates listed that aren't already downloaded. In this case, although we only listed `rand` as a dependency, Cargo also grabbed other crates that `rand` depends on to work. After downloading the crates, Rust compiles them and then compiles the project with the dependencies available.

If you immediately run `cargo build` again without making any changes, you won't get any output aside from the `Finished` line. Cargo knows it has already downloaded and compiled the dependencies, and you haven't changed anything about them in your `Cargo.toml` file. Cargo also knows that you haven't changed anything about your code, so it doesn't recompile that either. With nothing to do, it simply exits.

If you open the `src/main.rs` file, make a 📝trivial ([ˈtrivēəl] 琐碎的；细小的) change, and then save it and build again, you'll only see two lines of output:
```
$ cargo build
   Compiling guessing_game v0.1.0 (file:///projects/guessing_game)
    Finished dev [unoptimized + debuginfo] target(s) in 2.53 secs
```
These lines show that Cargo only updates the build with your tiny change to the `src/main.rs` file. Your dependencies haven't changed, so Cargo knows it can reuse what it has already downloaded and compiled for those.

## Ensuring Reproducible Builds with the Cargo.lock Filename

Cargo has a 📝mechanism ([ˈmekəˌnizəm] 机制) that ensures you can rebuild the same artifact every time you or anyone else builds your code. Cargo will use only the versions of the dependencies you specified until you indicate otherwise. For example, say that next week version `0.8.6` of the `rand` crate comes out, and that version contains an important bug fix, but it also contains a regression that will break your code. To handle this, Rust creates the `Cargo.lock` file the first time you run `cargo build`, so we now have this in the guessing_game directory.
